feat(rabbitmq-connector): add documentation for rabbitMq connector (#1449)
camunda/camunda-platform-docs: docs/components/connectors/out-of-the-box-connectors/rabbitmq.md

---
id: rabbitmq
title: RabbitMQ Service Connector
sidebar_label: RabbitMQ Connector
description: Send messages to RabbitMQ from your BPMN process using the RabbitMQ Connector.
---

The **RabbitMQ Connector** allows you to connect your BPMN service with [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/).

## Prerequisites

> To use the **RabbitMQ Connector**, you need to have an installed RabbitMQ server and credentials to use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the **RabbitMQ Connector**, you need to have an installed RabbitMQ server and relevant credentials.
```

It is highly recommended not to expose your secret credentials as plain text, but rather use Camunda secrets. See [this appendix entry](#how-do-i-store-secrets-for-my-connector) to learn more.

:::note

> Ensure you write out the correct exchange name and routing key, because the **RabbitMQ Connector** can't throw an exception if they are incorrect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure you write out the correct exchange name and routing key, as the **RabbitMQ Connector** can't throw an exception if they are incorrect.
```

:::

## Create a RabbitMQ Connector task

To use the **RabbitMQ Connector** in your process, either change the type of existing task by clicking on it and using the wrench-shaped **Change type** context menu icon, or create a new Connector task by using the **Append Connector** context menu. Follow our [guide to using Connectors](../use-connectors.md) to learn more.

> ## Make your RabbitMQ Connector for sending messages executable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Connecting to RabbitMQ and sending messages
```

> To make the **RabbitMQ Connector** executable, choose the needed connection type in the **Authentication** section and fill out the mandatory fields highlighted in red in the properties panel:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect to RabbitMQ, choose the required connection type in the **Authentication** section and complete the mandatory fields highlighted in red in the properties panel:
```

![connectors-rabbitmq-red-properties](../img/connectors-rabbitmq-red-properties.png)

:::note
All the mandatory and non-mandatory fields depending on the authentication selection you choose are covered in the upcoming sections.
:::

## Authentication

You can choose among the available RabbitMQ Connectors according to your authentication requirements.
First, you must have a user in your RabbitMQ instance with the necessary permissions. See more at the [RabbitMQ access control specification](https://www.rabbitmq.com/access-control.html).

Next, we will choose a type of connection.

### URI type connection

For a URI connection, take the following steps:

1. Click the **URI** connection type in the **Authentication** section
2. Set **URI** to `URI`. It must contain RabbitMQ username, password, host name, port number, and virtual host. For example, `amqp://userName:password@serverHost:port/virtualHost`; follow the [RabbitMQ URI specification](https://www.rabbitmq.com/uri-spec.html) to learn more.

![connectors-rabbitmq-uri-fields](../img/connectors-rabbitmq-uri-fields.png)

### Credentials type connection

> For a credentials connection, take the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect with credentials, take the following steps:
```

1. Click the **Username/Password** connection type in the **Authentication** section
2. Set the **Password** to `Password`.
   ![connectors-rabbitmq-credentials-fields](../img/connectors-rabbitmq-credentials-fields.png)

## Routing data

> In the **Routing** section you must set routing data (free feel use JSON format and FEEL expression format):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **Routing** section you must set the routing data attributes (you can either use JSON or a FEEL expression):
```

```json
{
  "exchange": "<your-rabbitmq-exchange-name>",
  "routingKey": "<your-rabbitmq-routing-key-name>",
  "virtualHost": "<your-rabbitmq-virtual-host-name>",
  "hostName": "<your-rabbitmq-host-name-or-ip-address>",
  "port": "<your-rabbitmq-port-number>"
}

> ```

Reviewer: Can we add a FEEL expression example here?

Reviewer: excellent! thanks

For a **URI** type connection, the required fields are `exchange` and `routingKey`.

> For a **Credentials** type connection, all fields are required.

Reviewer 2: To confirm, filling out all of the fields is required here?

Reviewer 2: Added in my latest commit 👍

![connectors-rabbitmq-routing](../img/connectors-rabbitmq-routing.png)

## Message

> 1. Set your message payload to **Message** section. Message can be text and JSON format.

Reviewer 2: What do you mean here? Do you mean, "In the **Message** section, insert the message payload."?

Reviewer 2: Added in my latest commit.

> 2. (Optional) Set message properties (JSON format or FEEL expression format) to **Properties** section. Follow [RabbitMQ documentation](https://www.rabbitmq.com/publishers.html#message-properties) for learn more about message properties.

Reviewer 2: Similar comment here. Do you mean "In the **Properties** section, insert the message properties in JSON or FEEL expression format."?

Reviewer 2: Added in my latest commit.

> 2. (Optional) In the **Properties** section, insert the message properties in JSON or FEEL expression format. Follow [RabbitMQ documentation](https://www.rabbitmq.com/publishers.html#message-properties) for learn more about message properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. (Optional) In the **Properties** section, insert the message properties in JSON or as a FEEL expression. Follow [RabbitMQ documentation](https://www.rabbitmq.com/publishers.html#message-properties) for learn more about message properties.
```

---
id: rabbitmq
title: RabbitMQ Service Connector
sidebar_label: RabbitMQ Connector
description: Send messages to RabbitMQ from your BPMN process using the RabbitMQ Connector.
---

The **RabbitMQ Connector** allows you to connect your BPMN service with [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/).

## Prerequisites

To use the **RabbitMQ Connector**, you need to have an installed RabbitMQ server and relevant credentials.
It is highly recommended not to expose your secret credentials as plain text, but rather use Camunda secrets. See [this appendix entry](#how-do-i-store-secrets-for-my-connector) to learn more.

:::note
Ensure you write out the correct exchange name and routing key, as the **RabbitMQ Connector** can't throw an exception if they are incorrect.
:::

## Create a RabbitMQ Connector task

> To use the **RabbitMQ Connector** in your process, either change the type of existing task by clicking on it and using the wrench-shaped **Change type** context menu icon, or create a new Connector task by using the **Append Connector** context menu. Follow our [guide to using Connectors](../use-connectors.md) to learn more.

Reviewer 3: @Oleksiivanov can you please create a follow up ticket to add icons as a separate task?

  virtualHost: "<your-rabbitmq-virtual-host-name>",
  hostName: "<your-rabbitmq-host-name-or-ip-address>",
  port: "<your-rabbitmq-port-number>"
}
```

For a **URI** type connection, the required fields are `exchange` and `routingKey`.
For a **Credentials** type connection, the required fields are `exchange`, `routingKey`, `virtualHost`, `hostName`, and `port`.

![connectors-rabbitmq-routing](../img/connectors-rabbitmq-routing.png)

## Message

1. In the **Message** section, insert the message payload. The message can be text and JSON format.
2. (Optional) In the **Properties** section, insert the message properties in JSON or as a FEEL expression. Follow [RabbitMQ documentation](https://www.rabbitmq.com/publishers.html#message-properties) for learn more about message properties.

![connectors-rabbitmq-message-with-properties](../img/connectors-rabbitmq-message-with-properties.png)

## RabbitMQ Connector response

The **RabbitMQ Connector** returns the `Success` result.
The response contains a `messageId` variable.

You can use an output mapping to map the response:

1. Use **Result Variable** to store the response in a process variable. For example, `myResultVariable`.

> 2. Use **Result Expression** to map fields from the response into process variables. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Use **Result Expression** to map specific fields from the response into process variables using [FEEL](https://docs.camunda.io/docs/components/modeler/feel/what-is-feel/). For example:
```

---
id: rabbitmq

> title: RabbitMq Service Connector

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: RabbitMQ Service Connector
```

> sidebar_label: RabbitMq Connector

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: RabbitMQ Connector
```

> description: Send messages to RabbitMq from your BPMN process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
description: Send messages to RabbitMQ from your BPMN process.
```

---

> The RabbitMq Connector allows you to connect your BPMN service with [RabbitMq](https://www.rabbitmq.com/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**The RabbitMQ Connector** allows you to connect your BPMN service with [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/).
```

## Prerequisites

> To use the **RabbitMq Connector**, you need to have an installed RabbitMq server and credentials for use it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use the **RabbitMQ Connector**, you need to have an installed RabbitMQ server and credentials to use it.
```

It is highly recommended not to expose your secret credentials as plain text but rather use Camunda secrets. See an [appendix entry](#how-do-i-store-secrets-for-my-connector) to learn more.
Make sure that you write correct exchange name and routing key, because **RabbitMQ Connector** can't throw exception if it is wrong. 

> ## Create an RabbitMq Connector task

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Create a RabbitMQ Connector task
```

> To use the **RabbitMq Connector** in your process, either change the type of existing task by clicking on it and using the wrench-shaped **Change type** context menu icon, or create a new Connector task by using the **Append Connector** context menu. Follow our [guide on using Connectors](../use-connectors.md) to learn more.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use the **RabbitMQ Connector** in your process, either change the type of existing task by clicking on it and using the wrench-shaped **Change type** context menu icon, or create a new Connector task by using the **Append Connector** context menu. Follow our [guide on using Connectors](../use-connectors.md) to learn more.
```

> ## Make your RabbitMq Connector for sending messages executable

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Make your RabbitMQ Connector for sending messages executable
```

> To make the **RabbitMq Connector** executable, choose needed connection type in **Authentication** section and fill out the mandatory fields highlighted in red in the properties panel:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To make the **RabbitMQ Connector** executable, choose needed connection type in **Authentication** section and fill out the mandatory fields highlighted in red in the properties panel:
```

![connectors-rabbitmq-red-properties](../img/connectors-rabbitmq-red-properties.png)

:::note

> All the mandatory and non-mandatory fields will be covered in the upcoming sections. Depending on the authentication selection you make, more fields might be required. We will also cover this in the next section.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All the mandatory and non-mandatory fields will be covered in the upcoming sections. Depending on the authentication selection you choose, different amount of fields are required. We will also cover this in the next section.
```

:::

## Authentication

> You can choose among the available REST Connectors according to your authentication requirements.

Reviewer 3: Sorry, what REST connectors?

> First of all you need create new user in rabbitMq with needed permissions see more in [rabbitmq access control specification](https://www.rabbitmq.com/access-control.html).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First of all, you need have a user in your RabbitMQ instance with necessary permissions. See more at the [RabbitMQ access control specification](https://www.rabbitmq.com/access-control.html).
```

> In next step choose need type of connection:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In next step choose a required type of connection:
```

### URI type connection 

1. Click **URI** connection type in **Authentication** section

> 2. Set **URI** to `URI`. It must contain rabbitMq username, password, host name, port number, and virtual host. Example: `amqp://userName:password@serverHost:port/virtualHost`, follow [uri rabbitmq specification](https://www.rabbitmq.com/uri-spec.html) to learn more.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Set **URI** to `URI`. It must contain RabbitMQ username, password, host name, port number, and virtual host. Example: `amqp://userName:password@serverHost:port/virtualHost`, follow the [RabbitMQ URI specification](https://www.rabbitmq.com/uri-spec.html) to learn more.
```

![connectors-rabbitmq-uri-fields](../img/connectors-rabbitmq-uri-fields.png)

### Credentials type connection

1. Click **Username/Password** connection type in **Authentication** section
2. Set **Password** to `Password`.
![connectors-rabbitmq-credentials-fields](../img/connectors-rabbitmq-credentials-fields.png)

## Routing Data 

In **Routing** section you need set routing data (free feel use json format and FEEL expression format) :

```json

> {
>   "exchange": "your-rabbitmq-exchange-name",
>   "routingKey": "your-rabbitmq-routing-key-name",
>   "virtualHost": "your-rabbitmq-virtual-host-name",
>   "hostName": "your-rabbitmq-host-name-or-ip-address",
>   "port": "your-rabbitmq-port-number"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{
  "exchange": "<your-rabbitmq-exchange-name>",
  "routingKey": "<your-rabbitmq-routing-key-name>",
  "virtualHost": "<your-rabbitmq-virtual-host-name>",
  "hostName": "<your-rabbitmq-host-name-or-ip-address>",
  "port": "<your-rabbitmq-port-number>"
```

}
```

> For **URI** type connection required fields : `exchange` and `exchangeDemo`.

Reviewer 3: What is `exchangeDemo`?

For **Credentials** type connection all fields is required. 

![connectors-rabbitmq-routing](../img/connectors-rabbitmq-routing.png)

## Message

> 1. Set your message payload to **Message** section. Message can be text and json format.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Set your message payload to **Message** section. Message can be text and JSON format.
```

> 2. (Optional) Set message properties (json format or FEEL expression format) to **Properties** section. Follow [rabbitmq documentation](https://www.rabbitmq.com/publishers.html#message-properties) for learn more about message properties.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. (Optional) Set message properties (JSON format or FEEL expression format) to **Properties** section. Follow [RabbitMQ documentation](https://www.rabbitmq.com/publishers.html#message-properties) for learn more about message properties.
```

![connectors-rabbitmq-message-with-properties](../img/connectors-rabbitmq-message-with-properties.png)

> ## RabbitMq Connector response

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## RabbitMQ Connector response
```

> The **RabbitMq Connector** returns the Success result.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The **RabbitMQ Connector** returns the `Success` result.
```
